Add guide for using the Gmail connector (#408)
wso2/ballerina-integrator: docs/content/src/learn/tutorials/saas-integrations/gmail/using-the-gmail-connector/README.md

# Using the Gmail Connector

## About
Ballerina is an open-source programming language that empowers developers to integrate their system easily with the support of connectors. In this guide, we are mainly focusing on how the Ballerina Gmail connector could be used for handling emails.

> The Ballerina Gmail connector allows you to send, read and delete emails through the Gmail REST API. It also provides the ability to read, trash, untrash, delete threads, get the Gmail profile and access the mailbox history as well, while handling OAuth 2.0 authentication. More details on this module can be found in the [Gmail Module](https://github.com/wso2-ballerina/module-gmail/blob/master/Readme.md) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ballerina Gmail connector allows you to send, read, and delete emails through the Gmail REST API. It also provides the ability to read, trash, untrash, and delete threads, get the Gmail profile, and access the mailbox history as well, while handling OAuth 2.0 authentication. More details on this module can be found in the [Gmail Module](https://github.com/wso2-ballerina/module-gmail/blob/master/Readme.md) repository.
```

You can find other integration modules from the [wso2-ballerina](https://github.com/wso2-ballerina) GitHub repository.

## What you'll build

> This guide will demonstrate a scenario where a customer feedback Gmail account of a company could be easily handled using the Ballerina Gmail Connector. This application contains a service which could be invoked through an HTTP GET request. Once the service is invoked, it would return the contents of unread emails in the `Inbox` while sending an automated response to the customer, thanking for their feedback. The number of emails that could be handled in a single invokation could be specified in the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates a scenario where a customer feedback Gmail account of a company can be easily managed using the Ballerina Gmail Connector. This application contains a service that can be invoked through an HTTP GET request. Once the service is invoked, it returns the contents of unread emails in the `Inbox`, while sending an automated response to the customer, thanking them for their feedback. The number of emails that can be handled in a single invocation is specified in the application.
```

## Prerequisites
- [Java](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/index.html)
- Ballerina Integrator
- A Text Editor or an IDE

> > **Tip**: For a better development experience, install the `Ballerina Integrator` extension in [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Tip**: For a better development experience, install the `Ballerina Integrator` extension in [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).
```

## Implementation

> #### Obtaining auth tokens to access Google APIs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### 1. Obtaining auth tokens to access Google APIs
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/wso2/ballerina-integrator/pull/416

3. On the **Credentials** tab, click **Create Credentials** and select **OAuth Client ID**.
4. Select an application type, enter a name for the application, and specify a redirect URI (enter https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground, if you want to use [OAuth 2.0 playground](https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground) to receive the authorization code and obtain the access token and refresh token).
5. Click **Create**. Your client ID and client secret will appear.
6. In a separate browser window or tab, visit [OAuth 2.0 playground](https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground). Click on the _OAuth 2.0 configuration_ icon in the top right corner and click on **Use your OAuth credentials** and provide your _OAuth Client ID_ and _OAuth Client secret_.
7. Select the required Gmail API scopes from the list of APIs, and then click **Authorize APIs**.
8. When you receive your authorization code, click **Exchange authorization code for tokens** to obtain the refresh token and access token.
9. You can enter the credentials in the HTTP client config when defining the service.

> Create a project.

Reviewer 2: Shall we add a sub-topic here, to add some separation?
```
#### 2. Create the project structure 
```
or something?

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/wso2/ballerina-integrator/pull/416

```bash
ballerina new using-the-gmail-connector
```
Navigate to the project directory and add a module using the following command.
```bash
ballerina add gmail_client_application
```

Add a `ballerina.conf` file and create .bal files with meaningful names as shown in the project structure given below.
```
using-the-gmail-connector
├── Ballerina.toml
├── ballerina.conf
└── src
    └── gmail_client_application
        ├── Module.md
        ├── gmail_client.bal
        ├── resources
        └── tests
            ├── resources
            └── gmail_client_test.bal
```

> Update the `ballerina.conf` file with the token configuration required for accessing the Gmail account.

Reviewer 2: Shall we add sub-topic here?
```
#### 3. Add project configurations file
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/wso2/ballerina-integrator/pull/416

```
ACCESS_TOKEN = ""
CLIENT_ID = ""
CLIENT_SECRET = ""
REFRESH_TOKEN = ""
```

You can open the project with VS Code. The integration implementation is written in the `gmail_client.bal` file.

> The code segment given below could be used to create a Gmail client. Ballerina Integrator VS Code plugin contains a snippet for the same, which could be loaded using the autocomplete feature for `client/gmail` keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code segment given below can be used to create a Gmail client. Ballerina Integrator VS Code plugin contains a snippet for the same, which can be loaded using the autocomplete feature for the `client/gmail` keyword.
```

> ```ballerina

Reviewer 2: Shall we add this as a code segment, since this is included in the code file.
Refer [this](https://github.com/IrushiL/ballerina-integrator/tree/gmailGuide/docs/doc-generator#b-include-a-code-segment)

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/wso2/ballerina-integrator/pull/416

gmail:GmailConfiguration gmailConfig = {
    oauthClientConfig: {
        accessToken: config:getAsString("ACCESS_TOKEN"),
        refreshConfig: {
            refreshUrl: gmail:REFRESH_URL,
            refreshToken: config:getAsString("REFRESH_TOKEN"),
            clientId: config:getAsString("CLIENT_ID"),
            clientSecret: config:getAsString("CLIENT_SECRET")
        }
    }
};

gmail:Client gmailClient = new(gmailConfig);
```

## Testing

Let’s build the module. Navigate to the project directory and execute the following command.

```bash
$ ballerina build gmail_client_application
```

> The build command would create an executable .jar file. Now run the .jar file created in the above step. Path to the `ballerina.conf` could be provided using the `--b7a.config.file` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build command creates an executable .jar file. Now run the .jar file created in the above step. Path to the `ballerina.conf` could be provided using the `--b7a.config.file` option.
```

```bash
$ java -jar target/bin/gmail_client_application.jar --b7a.config.file=path/to/ballerina.conf/file
```
Now we can see that the service has started on port 9090. Let’s invoke this service by executing the following cURL command.
```
curl -X GET http://localhost:9090/gmail/reviews
```
You will see the list of email body contents during a successful invocation.

### Writing unit tests

In Ballerina, the unit test cases should be in the same package inside a folder named `tests`. When writing test functions the convention given below should be followed.

Test functions should be annotated with `@test:Config {}`. See the example below.
```ballerina
@test:Config {}
function testSendTextMessage() {
}
```

> This guide contains unit tests for Gmail application in the `gmail_client_test.bal`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide contains unit tests for the Gmail application in the `gmail_client_test.bal`.
```

To run the unit tests, navigate to the project directory and run the following command.
```
ballerina test
```

> > **Note:** The `--b7a.config.file=path/to/ballerina.conf/file` option is required if it is needed to read configurations from a Ballerina configuration file.

Reviewer 2: we only need to give this if `ballerina.conf` file is not in the project root directory.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/wso2/ballerina-integrator/pull/416
